




Nonimmigrant Pathways for STEM Employment in the United States





      English
    

 
中文


한국어





View additional languages


 
Русский




Nonimmigrant pathways offer opportunities to work in the United States for a specified length of time and for a range of reasons. They do not provide lawful permanent residence, although many people who come to the United States on nonimmigrant visas subsequently transition to permanent resident pathways, and eventually U.S. citizenship. The following nonimmigrant pathways also permit you to bring your spouse and children under the age of 21 with you to the United States.F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)Generally, F-1 international students are not permitted to work in the United States. However, F-1 students may be eligible for Optional Practical Training (OPT). OPT permits an F-1 student to work in a position that is directly related to the student’s major area of study for up to 12 months. An F-1 student may be authorized for pre-completion OPT (before completion of the course of study) or post-completion OPT (after completion of the course of study). The time granted for post-completion OPT will be reduced by any time spent in pre-completion OPT. F-1 students who earned a degree in certain STEM fields are eligible for a 24-month extension of post-completion OPT, for a total of 36 months. This guide provides information for post-completion OPT, which is the most common type of OPT. Information about pre-completion OPT while working towards a degree is available on our Optional Practical Training (OPT) for F-1 Students page.Do I have the education, experience, or skills needed to qualify?You may be eligible for Optional Practical Training (OPT) if you are an F-1 student in the United States and you seek employment that is directly related to your major area of study.For the initial 12-month OPT:You have been a full-time student in good standing for at least 1 full academic yearYou are currently maintaining F-1 statusYour proposed work must be directly related to your major area of studyFor post-completion OPT, you may apply up to 90 days before you complete your degree, but no later than 60 days afterFor post-completion OPT, you must apply within 30 days after your designated school official (DSO) enters the recommendation for OPT into your Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) recordFor the 24-month STEM OPT extension:In addition to the above requirements for the initial 12-month OPT, you are an F-1 student who received a STEM degree included on the STEM Designated Degree Program List (PDF).You may apply up to 90 days before your current OPT authorization expires.You must apply within 60 days after your DSO enters the recommendation for STEM OPT into your SEVIS record.Do I need to have a job offer? Do I need a company to submit a petition for me?You do not need to have a job offer before applying for the initial 12-month OPT. However, your proposed work must be directly related to your major area of study. Additionally, you cannot be unemployed for an aggregate of more than 90 days during any post-completion OPT period.For the 24-month STEM OPT period, you must be employed by an employer who is enrolled in and is using E-Verify and signs a Training Plan for STEM OPT Students (PDF) (Form I-983).For both initial OPT and the 24-month STEM OPT extension, you must submit the application directly to USCIS (Form I-765; more information here). An employer does not submit a petition for you.Will I be working in the United States on a permanent basis as a lawful permanent resident or will I be working on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant for a specified period of time?You will be working on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant for a specified period of time.For the initial OPT period, you may be authorized up to a total of 12 months of full-time practical training at each educational level. (For example, you may have 12 months for a bachelor’s degree and another 12 months for a master’s degree). If you have a qualifying STEM degree, you may apply for a 24-month extension of your post-completion OPT. If you earn another qualifying STEM degree at a higher educational level than the first, you may be eligible for an additional 12-month OPT as well as another 24-month STEM OPT extension.For example, if you are in a valid period of up to 12 months of post-completion OPT, and you have a STEM degree, you can apply to extend your post-completion OPT by 24 months for a total OPT period of 36 months. If you earn another STEM degree at a higher level, you can again apply for up to 12 months of post-completion OPT followed by another 24 months of STEM OPT for another OPT total of 36 months at that educational level. A student may not be granted more than two STEM OPT extensions in that student’s lifetime.Are there any other criteria that are required for this specific pathway?F-1 students must first request a recommendation for OPT from the designated school official (DSO) at their U.S. college or university, which the DSO will note on the F-1 student’s Form I-20, Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status, in the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS). Only after securing a DSO endorsement on your Form I-20 and in SEVIS may you file the required Application for Employment Authorization (Form I-765) with USCIS.In addition, there are timing restrictions on when to duly file your Form I‑765 seeking either post-completion OPT or a 24-month STEM OPT extension. USCIS must receive any Form I-765 for post-completion OPT during the period that is no earlier than 90 days before you complete your degree and ending no later than 60 days after you complete your degree. In addition, your Form I-765 for post-completion OPT must be filed within 30 days after your DSO enters the recommendation for OPT into your SEVIS record. For a 24-month STEM OPT extension, USCIS must receive the Form I-765 during the 90-day period prior to the expiration of your post-completion OPT and within 60 days after your DSO enters the recommendation for STEM OPT into your SEVIS record.F-1 students may not start working in the United States until receiving an employment authorization document (EAD). Working without an EAD can negatively affect your immigration status now and in the future.Further informationYou can find more information on the STEM OPT Hub and the Study in the States website from the Student and Exchange Visitor Program office of the Department of Homeland Security.H-1B Specialty OccupationThe H-1B pathway enables people with at least a bachelor’s degree (or equivalent) to work in a job that is related to their degree and that qualifies as a “specialty occupation.” There is an annual cap on the number of H-1B workers that can be granted initial H-1B status each year. There are some exceptions to the cap, mainly related to the nature of the U.S. employer. An H-1B worker is permitted to stay in the United States for a maximum of 6 years – but an H-1B worker could stay well beyond 6 years if that worker is on the path to obtaining lawful permanent resident status.Special note on the H-1B classificationThere is an annual cap on the number of H-1B workers that can be granted initial status each year. The H-1B classification has an annual cap of 85,000 for each fiscal year of the U.S. government (Oct. 1 to Sept. 30). That annual cap includes 20,000 status grants set aside solely for workers who have earned a master’s degree or higher from a U.S. institution of higher education. The demand for one of these “cap numbers” is generally extremely high. Therefore, USCIS operates an electronic registration process for employers (prospective petitioners) to register potential workers, and, unless demand for a cap number is unexpectedly low, those registrations are then included in a random selection process. This random selection process is typically conducted in late March or early April. Only those with selected registrations will be eligible to file H-1B cap-subject petitions, typically in early October. H-1B workers who are petitioned by or employed at an institution of higher education (or an affiliated or related nonprofit entity), a nonprofit research organization, or a government research organization are not subject to this numerical cap. Petitions that are not subject to the cap may be filed at any time during the year and do not require an electronic registration. Additionally, petitions for workers already in H-1B status and who are switching employers or applying for a renewal period are generally not subject to the cap.Nationals of Chile and Singapore may qualify for the H-1B1 classification, which has substantially the same requirements as the H-1B classification, but has its own separate cap. Similarly, nationals of Australia may qualify for the E-3 classification, which also has substantially the same requirements as the H-1B classification, but has its own separate cap.Do I have the education, experience, or skills needed to qualify?To qualify as an H-1B specialty occupation worker, you must meet the following requirements:You must have at least a bachelor's degree in a specific specialty (or the equivalent) related to the position;You must have any necessary licenses, registrations, or certifications that are required for the position; andYour H-1B petition must be filed by a U.S. employer or agent on your behalf.What evidence can be submitted to help USCIS determine that my degree is related to the specialty occupation?Some of the evidence that is often submitted to demonstrate that your degree is related to the position in which you will be employed includes:A detailed explanation of the specific duties of the position, the product or service your prospective employer provides, or the complex nature of the role you will perform, and how your degree relates to the role.Written opinions from experts in the field explaining how your degree is related to the role you will perform.Printouts from online resources describing the degree fields normally associated with the occupation.Evidence that similar companies in your industry require similar degrees for similar positions.Can I qualify if I do not have a bachelor’s degree?If you do not have at least a bachelor’s degree in a specialized field that is directly related to the position in which you will be employed, then you may qualify by:Holding an unrestricted state license, registration, or certification that authorizes you to fully practice the specialty occupation and be immediately engaged in that specialty in the state of intended employment; orHaving education, specialized training, and/or progressively responsible experience that is equivalent to the completion of a U.S. bachelor’s or higher degree in the specialty occupation, and recognition of expertise in the specialty through progressively responsible positions directly related to the specialty. In general, 3 years of progressively responsible work experience or training in the field is considered as equivalent to 1 year of undergraduate education.Note: Your sponsoring employer should submit equivalency documents for all foreign degrees. If work experience is considered, your sponsoring employer should submit an equivalency evaluation from an official who has authority to grant college-level credit. If the equivalency evaluation is not from the registrar, your sponsoring employer should submit a statement from the school’s registrar to establish that the particular evaluating official is authorized to grant college-level credit on behalf of his or her institution.Do I need to have a job offer? Do I need a company to submit a petition for me?You need to have a job offer and the position must qualify as a “specialty occupation.” In most instances, an employer will file a petition for you.Your prospective job must meet one of the following criteria:A bachelor’s degree or higher degree or its equivalent is normally the minimum requirement for the particular position;The degree requirement is common for this position in the industry, or the job is so complex or unique that it can only be performed by someone with at least a bachelor's degree in a field related to the position;The employer normally requires at least a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent for the position; orThe nature of the specific duties is so specialized and complex that the knowledge required to perform the duties is usually associated with the attainment of a bachelor's or higher degree.What evidence can be submitted to help USCIS determine that my position is in an occupation that requires a degree in a specialized field directly related to the position?You may reference the Occupational Outlook Handbook (OOH) from the Department of Labor (DOL) to help determine whether certain jobs normally require at least a bachelor’s degree in a specialized field of study related to the occupation. If the OOH indicates that at least a bachelor’s degree in a specialized field is normally required for the occupation, the sponsoring employer should reference that OOH entry and submit an explanation as to how their position fits within that occupation. If the OOH does not indicate that at least a bachelor’s degree in a related, specialized field is normally required for the position, examples of evidence your sponsoring employer may submit to demonstrate that the position normally requires such a degree include:Copies of past position announcements, if relevant, that reflect the minimum requirements for the position and that show that the employer normally requires a degree in a specialized field that is directly related to the position.Documentation showing that the position is so specialized or complex it can only be performed by someone with at least a bachelor’s degree, or its equivalent, in a specialized field of study directly related to the position, including a detailed description of the petitioner’s business/products/services and the duties of the position.A detailed description of the petitioner’s business/products/services and the duties of the position, along with written opinions from experts confirming that the position is so specialized or complex it can only be performed by someone with at least a bachelor’s degree in a specialized field of study directly related to the position.Job listings, letters, and/or affidavits from other employers reflecting the minimum requirements for the position and showing that a degree requirement of at least a bachelor’s degree in a specialized field of study is common to the industry in parallel positions among similar organizations.Will I be working in the United States on a permanent basis as a lawful permanent resident or will I be working on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant for a specified period of time?You will be working on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant for a specified period of time.Initially, you may be granted up to 3 years to work in the United States (also known as the “validity period”). After your initial validity period, you may be granted extensions of up to 3 years. Generally, you are not eligible for any more extensions once you have been granted a total of 6 years. However, extensions beyond 6 years are permissible and not uncommon if an employer has taken certain steps in helping you apply for lawful permanent resident status (that is, you are the beneficiary of an approved I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, for which an immigrant visa is not immediately available, or you are the beneficiary of a labor certification or I-140 petition that was filed at least 365 days before the requested H-1B petition start date).Are there any other criteria that are required for this specific pathway?Your sponsoring employer must submit a Labor Condition Application (LCA) for your position, certified by the Secretary of Labor, when filing the H-1B petition with USCIS. The LCA serves as proof that the employer is offering, and will offer during the period of authorized employment as an H-1B nonimmigrant, wages that are at least the actual wage level paid by the employer to all other individuals with similar experience and qualifications for the specific employment in question, or the prevailing wage level for the occupational classification in the area of employment, whichever is greater, based on the best information available as of the time of filing the LCA.O-1A Extraordinary AbilityThe O-1A pathway allows nationally or internationally acclaimed talent across many fields the opportunity to work in the United States, and there is no annual numerical cap. There is no specified limit on the number of extensions a person can receive while working on an O-1.Do I have the education, experience, or skills needed to qualify?You may be eligible for an O-1A visa if you have “extraordinary ability” in the sciences, education, business, or athletics, which must be demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and recognition. You must also be coming to the United States to continue work in your area of extraordinary ability (but the position does not have to require someone of such extraordinary ability). “Extraordinary ability” in the fields of science, education, business, or athletics means you have a level of expertise indicating you are one of the small percentage of people who have risen to the very top of your field.Requirement 1 - You must be able to establish that you have extraordinary ability in your field.To establish eligibility for an O-1A visa, the petitioner (your sponsoring employer or an agent) must either provide evidence that you have received a major, internationally recognized award, similar to a Nobel Prize, or (more commonly) must submit evidence that satisfies at least 3 of 8 evidentiary criteria.The USCIS Policy Manual includes detailed guidance regarding how O-1A eligibility is evaluated, including a chart (reproduced below) that describes STEM-relevant examples of evidence that may satisfy each of the alternate O-1A evidentiary requirements, as well as considerations that are relevant to evaluating such evidence.Satisfying the O-1A Evidentiary RequirementsO-1A Evidentiary CriterionRelevant Examples and ConsiderationsDocumentation of the beneficiary’s receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor.Examples:Awards from well-known national institutions and well-known professional associations.Certain doctoral dissertation awards and Ph.D. scholarships.Certain awards recognizing presentations at nationally or internationally recognized conferences.Considerations:While many scholastic awards do not have the requisite level of recognition, there are some Ph.D. scholarships or dissertation awards, for example, that are nationally or internationally recognized as awards for excellence such that they may satisfy the requirements of this criterion. Relevant considerations include, but are not limited to:The criteria use to grant the awards or prizes;The national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field;The number of awardees or prize recipients; andLimitations on eligible competitors.For example, an award available only to persons within a single locality, employer, or school may have little national or international recognition, while an award open to members of a well-known national institution (including an R1 or R2 doctoral university*) or professional organization may be nationally recognized.Documentation of the beneficiary’s membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields.Examples:Membership in certain professional associations.Fellowships with certain organizations or institutions.Considerations:The petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts.Associations may have multiple levels of membership. The petitioner must show that in order to obtain the level of membership afforded to the beneficiary, the beneficiary was judged by recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought.As a possible example, membership in the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) at the IEEE fellow level requires, in part, that a nominee have “accomplishments that have contributed importantly to the advancement or application of engineering, science and technology, bringing the realization of significant value to society,” and nominations are judged by an IEEE council of experts and a committee of current IEEE fellows.** As another possible example, membership as a fellow in the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) is based on recognition of a nominee’s “significant, sustained contributions” to the field of artificial intelligence, and is judged by a panel of current AAAI fellows.***Relevant factors that may lead an officer to a conclusion that the person's membership in one or more associations was not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are not limited to, instances where the person's membership was based:Solely on a level of education or years of experience in a particular field;On the payment of a fee or by subscribing to an association's publications; orOn a requirement, compulsory or otherwise, for employment in certain occupations, such as union membership.Published material in professional or major trade publications or major media about the beneficiary, relating to the beneficiary's work in the field for which classification is sought. This evidence must include the title, date, and author of such published material and any necessary translation.Examples:Professional or major print publications (newspaper articles, popular and academic journal articles, books, textbooks, or similar publications) regarding the beneficiary and the beneficiary’s work.Professional or major online publications regarding the beneficiary and the beneficiary’s work.Transcript of professional or major audio or video coverage of the beneficiary and the beneficiary’s work.Considerations:Published material that includes only a brief citation or passing reference to the beneficiary’s work is not “about” the beneficiary, relating to the beneficiary’s work in the field, as required under this criterion. However, the beneficiary and the beneficiary’s work need not be the only subject of the material; published material that covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of the beneficiary’s work in the field and mentions the beneficiary in connection to the work may be considered material “about” the beneficiary relating to their work.Moreover, officers may consider material that focuses solely or primarily on work or research being undertaken by a team of which the beneficiary is a member, provided that the material mentions the beneficiary in connection with the work, or other evidence in the record documents the beneficiary’s significant role in the work or research.In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade publications and other major media).Evidence of the beneficiary's participation on a panel, or individually, as a judge of the work of others in the same or in an allied field of specialization for which classification is sought.Examples:Reviewer of abstracts or papers submitted for presentation at scholarly conferences in the respective field.Peer reviewer for scholarly publications.Member of doctoral dissertation committees.Peer reviewer for government research funding programs.Considerations:The petitioner must show that the beneficiary has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that the beneficiary actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization.For example, a petitioner might document a beneficiary’s peer review work by submitting a copy of a request from a journal to the beneficiary to do the review, accompanied by evidence confirming that the beneficiary actually completed the review.Evidence of the beneficiary's original scientific, scholarly, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field.Examples:Published materials about the significance of the beneficiary’s original work.Testimonials, letters, and affidavits about the beneficiary’s original work.Documentation that the beneficiary’s original work was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field.Patents or licenses deriving from the beneficiary’s work or evidence of commercial use of the beneficiary’s work.Considerations:Analysis under this criterion focuses on whether the beneficiary’s original work constitutes major, significant contributions to the field.Evidence that the beneficiary’s work was funded, patented, or published, while potentially demonstrating the work’s originality, will not necessarily establish, on its own, that the work is of major significance to the field. However, published research that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance from others working in the field, and documentation that it has been highly cited relative to other works in that field, may be probative of the significance of the beneficiary’s contributions to the field of endeavor.Similarly, evidence that the beneficiary developed a patented technology that has attracted significant attention or commercialization may establish the significance of the beneficiary’s original contribution to the field. If a patent remains pending, USCIS will likely require additional supporting evidence to document the originality of the beneficiary’s contribution.Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the beneficiary’s contribution(s) may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed significance.Submitted letters should specifically describe the beneficiary’s contribution and its significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer’s knowledge and expertise.Evidence of the beneficiary's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional journals, or other major media.Examples:Publications in professionally relevant journals.Published conference presentations at nationally or internationally recognized conferences.****Considerations:In order to meet this criterion, the beneficiary must be a listed author of the submitted article(s) but need not be the sole or first author. In addition, a petitioner need not provide evidence that the beneficiary’s published work has been cited to meet this criterion.*****In addition, the articles must be scholarly. In the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution and the article is normally peer-reviewed.In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. In non-academic arenas, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field.In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional journals) and the circulation or readership relative to other media in the field (for major media).Evidence that the beneficiary has been employed in a critical or essential capacity for organizations and establishments that have a distinguished reputation.Examples:Senior faculty or senior research position for a distinguished academic department or program.Senior research position for a distinguished non-academic institution or company.Principal or named investigator for a department, institution, or business that received a merit-based government award, such as an academic research or Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant.******Member of a key committee within a distinguished organization.Founder or co-founder of, or contributor of intellectual property to, a startup business that has a distinguished reputation.Critical or essential supporting role for a distinguished organization or a distinguished division of an institution or company, as explained in detail by the director or a principal investigator of the relevant organization or division.Considerations:To show a critical role, the evidence should establish that the beneficiary has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the organization or establishment’s activities. To show an essential role, the evidence should establish that the beneficiary’s role is (or was) integral to the entity. A leadership role in an organization often qualifies as critical or essential.For a supporting role to be considered critical or essential, USCIS considers other factors, such as whether the beneficiary’s performance in the role is (or was) integral or important to the organization or establishment’s goals or activities, especially in relation to others in similar positions within the organization.It is not the title of the beneficiary’s role, but rather the beneficiary’s duties and performance in the role that determines whether the role is (or was) critical or essential. Detailed letters from persons with personal knowledge of the significance of the beneficiary’s role can be particularly helpful in analyzing this criterion.The organization need not have directly employed the beneficiary.In addition, the organization or establishment must be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. Relevant factors for evaluating the reputation of an organization or establishment can include the scale of its customer base, longevity, or relevant media coverage.For academic departments, programs, and institutions, officers may also consider national rankings and receipt of government research grants as positive factors in some cases.For a startup business, officers may consider evidence that the business has received significant funding from government entities, venture capital funds, angel investors, or other such funders commensurate with funding rounds generally achieved for that startup’s stage and industry, as a positive factor regarding its distinguished reputation.Evidence that the beneficiary has either commanded a high salary or will command a high salary or other remuneration for services as evidenced by contracts or other reliable evidence.Examples:Tax returns, pay statements, or other evidence of past salary or remuneration for services.Contract, job offer letter, or other evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for services.Comparative wage or remuneration data for the beneficiary’s field, such as geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys.Considerations:If the petitioner is claiming to meet this criterion, then the burden is on the petitioner to provide appropriate evidence establishing that the beneficiary’s compensation is high relative to others working in similar occupations in the field. The following webpages, among others, may be helpful in evaluating the relative compensation for a given field:The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Overview of BLS Wage Data by Area and Occupation webpage; andThe Department of Labor's Career One Stop webpage.Officers should evaluate persons working outside of the United States based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence for that locality, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States.For entrepreneurs or founders of startup businesses, officers consider evidence that the business has received significant funding from government entities, venture capital funds, angel investors, or other such funders in evaluating the credibility of submitted contracts, job offer letters, or other evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for services.* The Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education recognizes R1 and R2 doctoral universities as having “very high” or “high” research activity, respectively, based on publicly available federal government data regarding the number of doctoral degrees awarded and the amount of total research expenditures. See the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education’s Basic Classification Description webpage.** See the IEEE’s Steps to Become an IEEE Fellow webpage.*** See the AAAI Fellows Program webpage. **** While many articles accepted for presentation at conferences do not result in publication, there are conferences that peer review and publish accepted presentations in professional journals (sometimes called proceedings), such that they may qualify as scholarly articles under this criterion.*****Instead, officers may consider citation evidence relating to the published work as part of the totality analysis to evaluate whether the record establishes that the beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of the field. For instance, documentation regarding the total rate of citations to the beneficiary’s body of published work relative to others in the field may indicate a beneficiary’s high overall standing for the purpose of demonstrating that the beneficiary is among the small percentage at the top of the field.****** See SBIR America’s Seed Fund webpage.Note: If any of the criteria discussed above do not readily apply to your occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable evidence to establish your eligibility. When the required initial evidence has been provided, USCIS will evaluate the totality of the evidence to determine eligibility.The Policy Manual also includes guidance regarding the use of comparable evidence to establish eligibility, including use of comparable evidence by individuals in STEM fields, as well as the following guidance regarding how USCIS evaluates the totality of the evidence for O-1A petitions:When the evidentiary requirements specified above are satisfied, an officer proceeds to evaluate the totality of all the evidence in the record to determine whether the beneficiary has extraordinary ability with sustained national or international acclaim, as described in the O statute and regulations.At this step, officers may consider any potentially relevant evidence, even if such evidence does not fit one of the above regulatory criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence.The following are examples of situations where evidence might not directly correspond to the above regulatory criteria or might not be presented as comparable evidence, but would nonetheless be potentially relevant towards demonstrating, in the totality of the evidence, that an O-1A beneficiary is among the small percentage at the top of the field and that the beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim:*The record demonstrates that the beneficiary has published articles in particularly highly ranked journals relative to other journals in the field, as demonstrated by, for example, evidence the petitioner provides regarding the journal’s impact factor.** Depending on the level of recognition of the journals in question, as demonstrated by evidence in the record, there may be particular prestige or acclaim associated with publication in such journals, especially if the beneficiary is the most significant contributor to the publication, a senior author, or the sole author of the article(s).The petitioner provides evidence demonstrating that the total rate of citations to the beneficiary’s body of published work is high relative to others in the field, or the beneficiary has a high h-index*** for the field. Depending on the field and the comparative data the petitioner provides, such evidence may indicate a beneficiary’s high overall standing for the purpose of demonstrating that the beneficiary is among the small percentage at the top of the field.****The petitioner documents the beneficiary’s employment or research experience is with leading institutions in the field (such as U.S. universities that have been recognized as having high or very high research activity by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education,***** foreign universities with comparably high research activity, or a university that is highly regarded according to a widely recognized metric such as the QS World University Rankings******). Such employment or experience can be a positive factor toward demonstrating that the beneficiary is among the small percentage at the top of the field.The record establishes that the beneficiary has received unsolicited invitations to speak or present research at nationally or internationally recognized conferences in the field. Although such a role for the conference may not rise to the level of a critical or essential capacity, this type of invitation is generally indicative of a person’s high standing and recognition for achievements in the field.The record establishes that the beneficiary is named as an investigator, scientist, or researcher on a peer-reviewed and competitively funded U.S. government grant or stipend for STEM research. This type of evidence can be a positive factor indicating a beneficiary is among the small percentage at the top of the beneficiary’s field.In all cases, the petitioner has the burden of providing sufficient context regarding the above evidence and considerations to demonstrate that the evidence meets the relevant criteria and to establish the beneficiary’s extraordinary ability in the totality of the circumstances.* Not all cases will have such evidence, nor does a case need such evidence for the petitioner to demonstrate eligibility. Additionally, the list below is a non-exhaustive list of examples, and while the listed factors may be especially relevant to beneficiaries in STEM fields, the guidance applies to all O-1A petitions.** Impact factor is commonly used as a measure of a journal’s influence; it represents the average number of citations received per article published in that journal during the 2 preceding years. See Garfield, E, The History and Meaning of the Journal Impact Factor, Journal of the American Medical Association, Vol. 295, Iss. 1, p. 90 (2006).*** The h-index is a tool for measuring a researcher’s output and impact. It is based on the highest number of the researcher’s publications that have been cited at least that same number of times. For example, if a researcher has an h-index of 10, it means the researcher has 10 publications that have 10 or more citations each (but not 11 publications with at least 11 citations each). See Hirsch, J, An Index to Quantify an Individual’s Scientific Research Output (PDF), Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, Vol. 102, Iss. 46, p. 16569 (2005).**** This factor is less relevant for beneficiaries early in their career, as such persons have had less time to accumulate citations but may nevertheless have garnered acclaim and risen to the small percentage at the top of the field as demonstrated by other evidence in the record. As stated above, none of the listed factors are required to demonstrate eligibility.***** The Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education uses the R1 and R2 doctoral university designations to recognize institutions as having “very high” or “high” research activity, respectively, based on publicly available federal government data regarding the number of doctoral degrees awarded and the amount of total research expenditures. See the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education’s Basic Classification Description webpage.****** The QS World University Rankings annually evaluate universities according to a methodology based on six consistent and empirical metrics: academic reputation (40%), employer reputation (10%), faculty to student ratio 20%), citations per faculty (20%), international faculty ratio (5%), and international student ratio (5%). These metrics are used to rank universities, as well as capture and assess university performance. See the QS World University Rankings Methodology webpage.Do I need to have a job offer? Do I need a company to submit a petition for me?You must be coming to the United States to continue work in your area of extraordinary ability. This is typically established by showing that you have a job offer with an employer in the United States.The petition must be filed by a U. S. employer, a U.S. agent, or a foreign employer through a U.S. agent. While the regulations prohibit an O-1A beneficiary from serving as the sponsoring employer for themselves, a separate legal entity (such as a corporation or limited liability company) that is partially or wholly owned by the beneficiary may file the petition on behalf of the O-1A owner.Will I be working in the United States on a permanent basis as a lawful permanent resident or will I be working on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant for a specified period of time?You will be working on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant for a specified period of time.Initially, you may be granted up to 3 years to work in the United States (also known as the “validity period”). After your initial validity period, you may be granted extensions of up to 1 year. There is no specified limit to the number of extensions you can obtain.L-1 Intracompany TransfereeL-1 visas provide a pathway for employees of multinational companies who hold positions as managers/executives or have specialized knowledge, allowing them to work in the U.S. for a maximum of up to seven years.Do I have the education, experience, or skills needed to qualify?You may be eligible for an L-1 visa for “intracompany transferees” if you are an executive, manager, or a worker with specialized knowledge who has worked abroad for a qualifying organization (including an affiliate, parent, subsidiary or branch of your foreign employer) for at least 1 year within the 3 years preceding the filing of your L-1 petition (or in some cases your admission to the United States) in an executive or managerial capacity or in a position that requires specialized knowledge. USCIS divides L-1 visas into L-1A, for managers or executives, and L-1B, for workers possessing specialized knowledge.Have you been working abroad for at least one continuous year within the past 3 years? (Note: brief trips to the United States do not typically interrupt the continuous year. Also, time off work such as for a vacation, maternity leave, etc. do not typically interrupt the continuous year.)Some of the evidence typically submitted to document overseas employment for 1 out of the last 3 years includes:Pay stubsPayroll recordsTax returns that show employmentEvidence of work productWas your overseas employment in a qualifying capacity?Some of the evidence typically submitted to demonstrate that overseas employment was in a managerial, or executive capacity includes:L-1A Manager or ExecutiveL-1A managerial or executive positions may correlate with STEM occupations, depending on the individuals and work that is managed. There is no labor market test for an L-1 managerial or executive employee. Executive positions involve employees who make decisions with wide latitude, and who receive minimal oversight. Managerial positions include personnel managers and function managers and involve the supervision and control of professional employees’ work, or management of an organization or a part thereof. Some of the evidence that may be submitted to demonstrate that your overseas employment was in an executive or managerial capacity includes:Organization charts showing your positionPatents or other evidence of the company’s technology, products, or services that are based on your workPerformance reviewsLoans/financing on behalf of the companyOrganizational job descriptions for your position and those positions that reported above and/or below you, if applicableResume describing your job duties and accomplishmentsL-1B Specialized Knowledge WorkerL-1B specialized knowledge frequently overlaps with STEM occupations, as it involves “special knowledge of your employer’s product, service, research, equipment, techniques, management, or other interests and their application in international markets, or an advanced level of knowledge or expertise in your employer’s processes and procedures.” Some of the evidence you may submit to demonstrate that your overseas employment was in a specialized knowledge capacity includes:Job descriptionsOrganizational charts showing your positionPatents or other evidence of the company’s technology, products or services that are based on your workNote: There is no requirement that an employee’s specialized knowledge be “unique” or “proprietary” in nature, but your knowledge must be “special” or of an “advanced” level. There is no labor market test for an L-1 specialized knowledge employee.USCIS has extensive guidance on the various means to demonstrate specialized knowledge, which are too extensive to be summarized here.Do I need to have a job offer? Do I need a company to submit a petition for me?You need to have a job offer and that position must be an executive or managerial position, as described above, or one that involves specialized knowledge. Also as noted above, the position must be with an entity that has a qualifying relationship with your foreign employer. The employer must file a petition for you.Does your company abroad have and will maintain a qualifying relationship (parent, subsidiary, affiliate, or branch) to the U.S. business that will employ you or that you will establish?The U.S. entity must have a qualifying relationship with the foreign entity abroad where you have been employed as a manager, executive, or worker with specialized knowledge. This means that the U.S. entity must be a parent, affiliate, subsidiary, or branch of the foreign entity, and that both the U.S. entity or office and a foreign entity must continue to have a qualifying relationship throughout the beneficiary’s stay in the United States.Some of the evidence typically submitted to show that a U.S. business has the requisite qualifying relationship to an overseas employer includes:Articles of incorporation/organization or similar organizational documents showing common ownership of the U.S. and foreign entitiesBy-laws, operating agreement, partnership agreement or similar operating documents showing common ownership of the U.S. and foreign entitiesBusiness licenses or other documents showing common ownership of the U.S. and foreign entitiesAnnual reports or U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K describing the corporate structure of the U.S. and foreign entitiesContracts or other documents detailing the qualifying relationship between the U.S. and foreign entitiesFederal income tax or other corporate filings in the United States or abroad describing the corporate relationshipAny other evidence demonstrating ownership and control over the U.S. and foreign entities (for example, stock purchase agreements, voting rights agreements, capitalization table, term sheet).Will I be working in the United States on a permanent basis as a lawful permanent resident or will I be working on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant for a specified period of time?You will be working on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant for a specified period of time.Initially, you may be granted up to 3 years (1 year if you are setting up a new office) to work in the United States (also known as the “validity period”). After your initial validity period, you may be granted extensions of up to 2 years. You are not eligible for any more extensions once you have been granted a total of 7 years if you are an executive or a manager, or 5 years if you are a specialized knowledge worker.Can the L visas be used to expand an existing enterprise into the U.S.?One specific use of the L visa can be to open a new office in the United States that has a qualifying relationship with an existing overseas entity. The petition must demonstrate that the new office will support a managerial or executive position within 1 year. Specialized knowledge workers may also qualify for a new office petition. If approved, the validity period is 1 year. After that 1 year, the new office must submit an extension request by filing a new application or petition. If approved, that extension will be valid and subject to the same provisions as all other (non-new office) L petitions.Will you be coming to the United States to open a new office location for a foreign business entity that employed you abroad?Will the new office be active and operating shortly after you arrive in the United States as an L-1?TN NAFTA/USMCA ProfessionalMexican and Canadian nationals can use the TN classification to work in the United States for professional purposes in qualifying professions (this list includes a number of STEM-related occupations).The U.S.-Mexico-Canada Free Trade Agreement (USMCA), which replaced the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), is the basis for the TN classification. The TN nonimmigrant classification permits qualified Canadian and Mexican citizens to seek temporary entry into the United States to engage in business activities at a professional level. There is no time limit on how long someone may be in TN status.Do I have the education, experience, or skills needed to qualify?The TN classification may be useful for STEM professionals such as engineers, pharmacists, and scientists. Not all professions qualify, but many of those that do are STEM-related. A full list of qualifying professions is included in the regulations. You may be eligible for TN nonimmigrant status, if:You are a citizen of Canada or Mexico;Your profession qualifies under the regulations above; andYou have the qualifications, such as a license, to practice in the profession in question.Do I need to have a job offer? Do I need a company to submit a petition for me?You need to have a job offer and that position must be a position in the United States that requires a TN professional. You must also have a prearranged full-time or part-time job with a U.S. employer (self-employment is not allowed). If you are a Canadian outside the United States you may apply, with certain information provided to you by your employer, at certain CBP-designated U.S. ports of entry or at a designated pre-clearance/pre-flight inspection station. If you are a Mexican outside the United States, you must apply, with the information provided to you by your employer, at a U.S. Consulate. If you are a Mexican or Canadian citizen inside the United States in a nonimmigrant status, your employer submits a petition to USCIS for you.Will I be working in the United States on a permanent basis as a lawful permanent resident or will I be working on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant for a specified period of time?You will be working on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant for a specified period of time.Initially, you may be granted up to 3 years to work in the United States (also known as the “validity period”). After your initial validity period, you may be granted extensions of up to 3 years. There is no specified limit to the number of extensions you can obtain.Are there any other criteria that are required for a specific pathway?The TN classification is only for Canadian or Mexican nationals. Nationals of other countries are not eligible nor are permanent residents of Canada or Mexico.More InformationIf you are a Canadian citizen, you are not required to apply for a TN visa at a U.S. Consulate, and may establish eligibility for TN classification by seeking admission to the United States at certain CBP-designated U.S. ports of entry or at a designated pre-clearance/pre-flight inspection station. You must provide the following documentation to the CBP officer:Proof of Canadian citizenship;Letter from your prospective employer detailing items such as the professional capacity in which you will work in the United States, the purpose of your employment, your length of stay, and your educational qualifications; andCredentials evaluation (if applicable), together with any applicable fees.Please refer to CBP’s website for additional information and requirements for applying for admission to the United States. If a CBP officer finds you eligible for admission, you will be admitted as a TN nonimmigrant.Mexican citizens must apply for a TN visa directly at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate in Mexico. See the U.S. Department of State Visas for Mexican and Canadian NAFTA Professional Workers webpage.If you are a Mexican or Canadian citizen already in the United States, your employer may submit Form I-129, Petition for Nonimmigrant Worker to USCIS to either extend or change your status to TN. Premium processing service is available.J-1 STEM Exchange VisitorsThe J-1 exchange visitor category is for nonimmigrants approved to participate in work or study-based exchange visitor programs. Exchange visitor programs are conducted by Department of State (DOS) designated sponsors. General information about the J-1 program is available at the DOS website.In January 2022, DOS announced measures to increase the flow of talent in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields. The Early Career STEM Research Initiative connects J-1 program sponsors with host organizations, including businesses that have STEM-relevant training or research positions. Depending on the J-1 category (Research Scholar, Short-Term Scholar, Professor, College and University Student, Specialist, Intern, or Trainee), the validity period can last up to 5 years. More information for host organizations and STEM professionals is available on this DOS fact sheet  (PDF), along with recent examples such as Women in STEM and International Trainees working in a science lab.中文 (PDF, 357.48 KB)  | 한국어 (PDF, 596.67 KB)  | Русский (PDF, 540.72 KB)



Last Reviewed/Updated:
07/31/2023











Optional Practical Training (OPT) for F-1 Students


Optional Practical Training (OPT) is temporary employment that is directly related to an F-1 student’s major area of study. Eligible students can apply to receive up to 12 months of OPT employment authorization before completing their academic studies (pre-completion) and/or after completing their academic studies (post-completion). However, all periods of pre-completion OPT will be deducted from the available period of post-completion OPT.
Types of OPT
All OPT must be directly related to your major area of study. If you are an F-1 student, you may be eligible to participate in OPT in two different ways:
Pre-completion OPT: You may apply to participate in pre-completion OPT after you have been lawfully enrolled on a full-time basis for one full academic year at a college, university, conservatory, or seminary that has been certified by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) to enroll F-1 students. You do not need to have had F-1 status for the one full academic year; you can satisfy the “one full academic year” requirement even if you had another nonimmigrant status during that time.
If you are authorized to participate in pre-completion OPT, you may work (20 hours or less per week) while school is in session. You may work full time when school is not in session.
Post-completion OPT: You may apply to participate in post-completion OPT after completing your studies. If you are authorized for post-completion OPT, you must work part time (at least 20 hours per week) or full time.
Impact of Pre-completion OPT Employment Authorization on Requests for Post-completion OPT at the Same Education Level
If you have already received 1 year of part-time (20 hours per week) pre-completion OPT, the total time of full-time OPT still available would be reduced by 6 months, 50% of the previously authorized year at the same education level. In this scenario, you would only be entitled to a remaining period of 6 months full-time post-completion OPT employment authorization.
If you have already received 1 year of full-time (40 hours per week) pre-completion OPT, the total time of full-time optional practical training still available would be reduced by 1 year, 100% of the previously authorized year at the same education level. In this scenario, you would not be entitled to any period of post-completion OPT employment authorization.
STEM OPT Extension
If you have earned a degree in certain science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields, you may apply for a 24-month extension of your post-completion OPT employment authorization if you:
Are an F-1 student who received a STEM degree included on the STEM Designated Degree Program List   (PDF);
Are employed by an employer who is enrolled in and is using E-Verify; and
Received an initial grant of post-completion OPT employment authorization based on your STEM degree.
If you are interested in applying for a STEM OPT extension, please see our Optional Practical Training Extension for STEM Students (STEM OPT) page for more information.
Applying for OPT
Generally, you must:
Request that your designated school official (DSO) at your academic institution recommend the OPT. Your DSO will make the recommendation by endorsing your Form I‑20, Certification of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status, and making the appropriate notation in the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS).
Properly file Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization with USCIS, accompanied by the required fee and the supporting documentation as described in the form instructions.
When to apply

If you are applying based on a…


For…


Then you…


STEM degree


Pre-completion OPT


Must apply after your DSO enters the recommendation for OPT into your SEVIS record, and
May apply up to 90 days before you complete a full academic year, as long as you do not start OPT employment until you complete one full academic year.


Initial post-completion OPT


Must apply after your DSO enters the recommendation for OPT into your SEVIS record, and
Must apply within 30 days after your DSO enters the recommendation for OPT into your SEVIS record, and
May apply up to 90 days before you complete your degree, but no later than 60 days after you complete your degree.


 


STEM OPT extension


Must apply after your DSO enters the recommendation for OPT into your SEVIS record, and
Must apply within 60 days after your DSO enters the recommendation for OPT into your SEVIS record, and
May apply up to 90 days before your current OPT employment authorization expires.


Non-STEM degree


Pre-completion OPT


Must apply after your DSO enters the recommendation for OPT into your SEVIS record, and
May apply up to 90 days before you complete a full academic year, as long as you do not start OPT employment until you complete one full academic year.


Post-completion OPT


Must apply after your DSO enters the recommendation for OPT into your SEVIS record, and
Must apply within 30 days after your DSO enters the recommendation for OPT into your SEVIS record, and
May apply up to 90 days before you complete your degree, but no later than 60 days after you complete your degree.

You may begin your pre- or post-completion OPT only after we approve your Form I-765 and you receive your Employment Authorization Document (EAD).
If you file your STEM OPT extension application on time and your OPT period expires while your extension application is pending, we will automatically extend your employment authorization for 180 days. This automatic 180-day extension ceases once USCIS adjudicates your STEM OPT extension application.
Transferring to a Different School or Beginning Study at Another Educational Level
If you transfer to another school or begin studies at another educational level (for example, you completed a bachelor’s degree and are starting a master’s program), your authorization to engage in OPT employment will automatically terminate. SEVP will inform USCIS of the termination date, and USCIS will terminate your EAD accordingly. 
Although your authorization to engage in optional practical training will end, as long as you comply with all requirements for maintaining your student status, your F-1 status will not be affected by USCIS terminating your EAD. Maintaining your student status includes not working on a terminated EAD, as the termination means that you are no longer authorized to work in the United States using that OPT EAD. Working in the United States without authorization has serious consequences, including removal from the country and reentry bars. Also, remaining in the United States in violation of your lawful nonimmigrant status could lead to an accrual of unlawful presence. Please see USCIS Changing Policy on Accrued Unlawful Presence by Nonimmigrant Students and Exchange Visitors for more information regarding termination of your employment authorization under OPT and any impacts on your student status, including the possible accrual of unlawful presence.
If you feel that your EAD has been wrongfully terminated, would like to request reconsideration of the EAD termination, or if you have other questions, see your DSO. 
Cap-gap Extension for F-1 Students with Approved H-1B Petitions
If you are an F-1 student with a timely filed H-1B petition and change of status request, and your F-1 status and employment authorization will expire before the change of status to H-1B occurs (typically Oct. 1), you may be eligible for a cap-gap extension. Go to our Cap-Gap Extension page for more information.




Last Reviewed/Updated:
03/31/2023











Optional Practical Training Extension for STEM Students (STEM OPT)


Certain F-1 students who receive science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) degrees may apply for a 24-month extension of their post-completion optional practical training (OPT).

Eligibility for the STEM OPT Extension

To qualify for the 24-month extension, you must:
Have been granted OPT and currently be in a valid period of post-completion OPT;
Have earned a bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral degree from a school that is accredited by a U.S. Department of Education-recognized accrediting agency and is certified by the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) at the time you submit your STEM OPT extension application.
	Previously obtained STEM degrees: If you are an F-1 student participating in a 12-month period of post-completion OPT based on a non-STEM degree, you may be eligible to use a previous STEM degree from a U.S. institution of higher education to apply for a STEM OPT extension. You must have received both degrees from currently accredited and SEVP-certified institutions, and cannot have already received a STEM OPT extension based on this previous degree. The practical training opportunity also must be directly related to the previously obtained STEM degree.
		For example: If you are currently participating in OPT based on a master’s degree in business administration but you previously received a bachelor’s degree in mathematics, you may be able to apply for a STEM OPT extension based on your bachelor’s degree as long as it is from an accredited U.S. college or university and the OPT employment opportunity is directly related to your bachelor’s degree in mathematics.

STEM degrees you obtain in the future: If you enroll in a new academic program in the future and earn another qualifying STEM degree at a higher educational level, you may be eligible for one additional 24-month STEM OPT extension.
		For example: If you receive a 24-month STEM OPT extension based on your bachelor’s degree in engineering and you later earn a master’s degree in engineering, you may apply for an additional 24-month STEM OPT extension based on your master’s degree.


Work for an employer who meets all the requirements listed below in the STEM OPT Employer Responsibilities section.
Submit the Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, up to 90 days before your current OPT employment authorization expires, and within 60 days of the date your designated school official (DSO) enters the recommendation for OPT into your Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) record.

Applying for a STEM OPT Extension

To apply for an extension, you must properly file:
Form I-765 with
	The correct application fee,
Your employer’s name as listed in E-Verify, and
Your employer’s E-Verify Company Identification Number or valid E-Verify Client Company Identification Number

Form I-20, Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status, endorsed by your DSO within the last 60 days; and
A copy of your STEM degree.
If you file your STEM OPT extension application on time and your OPT period expires while your extension application is pending, we will automatically extend your employment authorization for 180 days. This automatic 180-day extension ceases once USCIS adjudicates your STEM OPT extension application. F-1 students who have a pending STEM OPT extension application are not eligible for the temporary increase of the automatic extension period under the temporary final rule published on May 4, 2022. That temporary increase of the automatic extension period under 8 CFR 274a.13(d) only applies to the categories listed in the chart on the Automatic Employment Authorization Document (EAD) Extension page.

After Receiving a STEM OPT Extension

Student Reporting Responsibilities
If you receive a STEM OPT extension, you must:
Report changes to the following information to your DSO within 10 days of the change:
	Your legal name
Your residential or mailing address
Your email address
Your employer’s name
Your employer’s address

Report to your DSO every 6 months to confirm the information listed above, even if none of your information has changed.
For more information, please refer to the DHS STEM OPT Hub.
Unemployment during the OPT Period
You may be unemployed during your OPT period for a limited number of days.
If you received…
You may be unemployed for…
For a total of…(during the OPT period)
Initial post-completion OPT only
Up to 90 days
90 days
24-month extension
An additional 60 days
150 days

STEM OPT Employer Requirements and Responsibilities

If you are an employer who wants to provide a practical training opportunity to a STEM OPT student during their extension, you must:
Be enrolled in E-Verify, as evidenced by either a valid E-Verify company identification number or, if the employer is using an employer agent to create its E-Verify cases, a valid E-Verify client company identification number.
Remain a participant in good standing with E-Verify, as determined by USCIS.
Have a valid Employer Identification Number (EIN) issued by the Internal Revenue Service for tax purposes.
Report material changes of the STEM OPT student’s employment by submitting a modified Form I-983 to the DSO at the earliest available opportunity.
Report the STEM OPT student’s termination of employment or departure to the DSO within 5 business days.
Implement a formal training program to augment the student’s academic learning through practical experience.
Provide an OPT opportunity that is commensurate with those of similarly situated U.S. workers in duties, hours, and compensation.
Terms and Conditions for Employer Participation
To ensure the integrity of the program and provide safeguards for U.S. workers, any employer wishing to employ a student participating in the STEM OPT extension program must ensure that:
The employer will have and maintain a bona fide employer-employee relationship with the student.
The employer has sufficient resources and personnel available to provide appropriate training in connection with the specified opportunity at the location(s) specified in the Form I-983, Training Plan for STEM OPT Students.
The STEM OPT student will not replace a full- or part-time, temporary or permanent U.S. worker.
The training opportunity will assist the student in attaining his or her training goals.
DHS may, at its discretion, conduct a site visit of the employer to ensure that program requirements are being met, including that the employer possesses and maintains the ability, personnel, and resources to provide structured and guided work-based learning experiences consistent with the training plan.
The Employer’s Training Obligation
As noted above, to be eligible to employ a STEM OPT student, an employer must have and maintain a bona fide employer-employee relationship with the student. The employer must attest to this fact by signing the Form I-983, Training Plan for STEM OPT Students. To establish a bona fide relationship, the employer may not be the student’s “employer” in name only, nor may the student work for the employer on a “volunteer” basis. Moreover, the employer that signs the Form I-983 must be the same entity that provides the practical training experience to the student.
An employer must have sufficient resources and trained or supervisory personnel available to provide appropriate training in connection with the specified training opportunity at the location(s) where the student’s practical training experience will take place, as specified in the Form I-983. The “personnel” who may provide and supervise the training experience may be either employees of the employer, or contractors who the employer has directly retained to provide services to the employer; they may not, however, be employees or contractors of the employer’s clients or customers. Additionally, under no circumstances would another F-1 student with OPT or a STEM OPT extension (who is undergoing training in their own right) be qualified to train another F-1 student with a STEM OPT extension.
While employers may rely on their existing training programs or policies to satisfy the requirements relating to performance evaluation and oversight and supervision, the student’s Training Plan must nevertheless be customized for the individual student. For instance, every Training Plan must describe the direct relationship between the STEM OPT opportunity and the student’s qualifying STEM degree, as well as the relationship between the STEM OPT opportunity and the student’s goals and objectives for work-based learning. Moreover, a STEM OPT employer may not assign, or otherwise delegate, its training responsibilities to a non-employer third party (e.g., a client/customer of the employer, employees of the client/customer, or contractors of the client/customer).
As noted above, DHS, at its discretion, may conduct a site visit of any STEM OPT employer to ensure that the employer possesses and maintains the ability and resources to provide structured and guided work-based learning experiences consistent with the Form I-983. See 8 C.F.R. 214.2(f)(10)(ii)(C)(11). Consistent with this provision, during a site visit, DHS may verify that the employer that signs the Form I-983 is the same entity that provides the practical training experience to the student and ensure compliance. For ICE to effectively conduct these site visits as part of its oversight responsibilities, it is important that employers report any change in a student’s employment address. As indicated above, the employer and student must report such a material change by submitting a modified Form I-983 to the DSO at the earliest available opportunity.
The Employer’s Training Obligation: Staffing and Temporary Agencies
Staffing and temporary agencies and consulting firms may seek to employ students under the STEM OPT program, but only if they will be the entity that provides the practical training experience to the student and they have and maintain a bona fide employer-employee relationship with the student. STEM OPT participants may engage in a training experience that takes place at a site other than the employer’s principal place of business as long as all of the training obligations are met, including that the employer has and maintains a bona fide employer-employee relationship with the student. Certain types of arrangements, including multiple employer arrangements, sole proprietorships, employment through ‘‘temp’’ agencies, employment through consulting firm arrangements that provide labor for hire, and other similar relationships may not be able to demonstrate a bona fide employer-employee relationship and, therefore, may not meet the requirements of the STEM OPT extension.
As part of the STEM OPT extension, employers must complete the appropriate parts of Form I-983, Training Plan for STEM OPT Students. In this form, employers attest that:
They have enough resources and trained personnel available to appropriately train the student;
The student will not replace a full- or part-time, temporary or permanent U.S. worker; and
Working for them will help the student attain their training objectives.
DHS will review on a case-by-case basis whether the student will be a bona fide employee of the employer signing the training plan, and verify that the employer that signs the training plan is the same entity that employs the student and provides the practical training experience.
For more information, please refer to the DHS STEM OPT Hub.






Last Reviewed/Updated:
06/03/2022











              I-765, Application for Employment Authorization 






ALERT: On Jan. 30, 2024, USCIS announced a final rule, published in the Federal Register, that adjusts the fees required for most immigration applications and petitions. The new fees will be effective April 1, 2024.Applications and petitions postmarked on or after April 1, 2024, must include the new fees or USCIS will not accept them.What to Know About Sending Us Your FormThe new filing fee is effective for filings postmarked April 1, 2024, and later. If you are filing an acceptable prior form edition on or after April 1, 2024, you must include the new filing fee.






ALERT: We have updated the filing address to request a replacement Employment Authorization Document (EAD) that contains a mistake due to USCIS error. Please follow the instructions listed on the Direct Filing Addresses for Form I-765 webpage for card replacements due to USCIS error.






ALERT: You are likely eligible to apply for an employment authorization document (EAD) to legally work in the United States if:You were recently paroled into the United States and that parole remains valid; orYou have applied for asylum and that application has been pending for at least 150 days.If you have not already started the EAD application process, you can begin here by creating a USCIS account online and filing Form-I-765. USCIS will mail your work permit to the address you provided in your application if your application is approved. If necessary, you can file a paper application for Form I-765 instead.






Alert: To improve efficiency and reduce Form I-765 processing times for Form I-485 applicants, USCIS may decouple Forms I-765 from Forms I-131 filed at the same time.



To improve efficiency and reduce Form I-765 processing times for Form I-485 applicants, USCIS may decouple Forms I-765 from Forms I-131 filed at the same time. Effective Feb. 1, 2022, when possible, we will adjudicate an applicant's Form I-765 first. If we approve it, we will issue an Employment Authorization Document without any notation about advanced parole. We will adjudicate the Form I-131 separately and if we approve it, we will issue an advance parole document.








Alert: As of April 1, 2022, we will no longer accept a single, combined fee payment for the filing of Form I-539, Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status; Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization; or Form I-824, Application for Action on an Approved Application or Petition, together with a Form I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker.



As of April 1, 2022, we will no longer accept a single, combined fee payment for the filing of Form I-539, Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status; Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization; or Form I-824, Application for Action on an Approved Application or Petition, together with a Form I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker.Separate payments are required for each of these forms. If the payments for these forms are combined, we will reject the entire package.We are transitioning to electronically processing immigration benefit requests. As we complete this transition, we will be using multiple systems to receive and process various types of immigration benefit requests. Because the Form I-129 and related applications are not all processed in the same system, we require a separate payment instrument for each of these forms.We acknowledge that using multiple checks or payments for the Form I-129 and related applications is more burdensome than using one payment. We are always analyzing our forms, practices, and policies to streamline filing and reduce, minimize, and control burdens to submit requests. However, we believe that the advantages of electronic processing to both the agency and to the public outweigh the minor inconvenience of submitting individual fee payments.








Alert Afghan Parolee: If you are an Afghan national paroled into the United States and you are applying for employment authorization, you will need a Social Security number (SSN) to work in the United States.



If you are an Afghan national paroled into the United States and you are applying for employment authorization, you will need a Social Security number (SSN) to work in the United States. Your SSN allows employers to report your earnings to the U.S. government.We encourage you to apply for an SSN (or replacement SSN card) using Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, and following the form instructions. If you do not request an SSN in Part 2 (Items 14-17.b) of your Form I-765, you must make an appointment to visit a Social Security Administration office in person to apply for your SSN after you receive your Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766). For more information, see Apply for Your Social Security Number While Applying for Your Work Permit (PDF, 400.77 KB).





Certain noncitizens who are in the United States may file Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, to request an Employment Authorization Document (EAD). Other noncitizens whose immigration status authorizes them to work in the United States without restrictions may also use Form I-765 to apply for an EAD that shows such authorization.After any I-765 is approved, your EAD card should be produced within one to two weeks. Your EAD card will be mailed via U.S. Postal Service (USPS) Priority Mail. The time frame in which you will receive your EAD card may vary, depending on USPS delivery times. Please allow a total of 30 days from approval before inquiring with USCIS. We encourage you to use Case Status Online to find your USPS tracking number for EAD card delivery. If you have not received your EAD card within this time frame, please visit e-Request - Self Service Tools (uscis.gov) for instructions on how to submit an inquiry.
File Online 



Form Details Forms and Document DownloadsForm I-765  (PDF, 454.29 KB)Instructions for Form I-765  (PDF, 751.16 KB)Form I-765 Worksheet  (PDF, 243.14 KB)Edition Date10/31/22. You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.If you need help downloading and printing forms, read our instructions. Where to FileThe filing address depends on your reason for applying and the eligibility category you entered in Question 27. Please check the filing locations for Form I-765  for a list of addresses.If you are a replacing a card that has incorrect information, please see the Special Instructions provided below.When to FileFilers wishing to renew an existing employment authorization card (EAD), should file Form I-765 within 6 months of the expiration date on their current EAD. We recommend you do not file a request to renew your EAD more than 180 days before the expiration of your EAD. We generally do not backdate or postdate the renewal EAD in relation to your current EAD’s validity period.Please refer to the Form I-765 instructions for information on other specific categories.To renew your Employment Authorization Document, file Form I-765 at least 90 days prior to the expiration.Filing CategoryWhen to File(a)(20)You may file Form I-765 at the same time as Form 918, Supplement A, Petition for Qualifying Family Member of U-1 Recipient, or you may file Form I-765 later.(c)(3)(A)File Form I-765 up to 90 days before being enrolled for one full academic year, provided that the period of employment will not start before you have completed one full academic year.(c)(3)(B)File Form I-765 up to 90 days before, but no later than 60 days after, your program end date. You must file your Form I-765 within 30 days of the date that your DSO enters the recommendation for OPT into your SEVIS record.(c)(3)(C)File Form I-765 up to 90 days before the expiration of your current OPT, if you are requesting a 24-month STEM extension.(c)(6)File Form I-765 with a copy of the Form I-20 endorsed by the DSO certifying eligibility for employment together with Form I-539, Application to Change/Extend Nonimmigrant Status, if applicable, completed according to the Form I-539 Instructions. We must receive the completed forms before, but not more than 90 days before, your program end date.(c)(8)You must wait 150 days before you can apply for an EAD, and an additional 30 days before we can issue you an EAD, for a total of 180 days starting from when you filed or lodged your I-589 asylum application. The number of days a completed asylum application is considered pending does not include any delays requested or caused by you while your application is pending with the USCIS asylum office or with an EOIR IJ.  (See 8 CFR 208.7)  This period during which your asylum application is pending before we may grant you an EAD is called the “180-day asylum EAD clock.”  We may reject your Form I-765 if you file it before the 150-day waiting period has elapsed. Further details can be found in the Form I-765 Instructions.If you have received a Recommended Approval notice from the USCIS asylum office recommending a grant of asylum, you do not need to wait 150 days and may apply for an EAD immediately upon receipt of this notice. Provide a copy of your notice as evidence of your recommended approval with your Form I-765.(c)(9)File Form I-765 together with Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, or if filing separately, submit a copy of your I-485 receipt notice or other evidence to show that your Form I-485 is pending.(c)(10)If you are eligible to apply for NACARA 203 relief with USCIS, you may file Form I-765 together with your Form I-881, Application for Suspension of Deportation or Special Rule Cancellation of Removal (Pursuant to Section 203 of Public Law 105-100 (NACARA)).(c)(11)File Form I-765 with sufficient evidence to show that your parole status is current and has not expired or is about to expire.(c)(26)You may file Form I-765 at the same time as your Form I-539 and your H1-B spouse’s Form I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker.(c)(36)You may file your Form I-765 with your spouse’s or parent’s application under (c)(35).(c)(37)You must file Form I-765 together with your Form I-955, Application for CNMI Long-Term Resident Status.Filing Fee$410.You may be exempt from paying the filing fee. See the form instructions for more information.You must also pay an $85 biometric services fee if you are filing with 1 of the following eligibility categories:(c)(35) A beneficiary of an approved employment-based immigrant petition and you are facing compelling circumstances;(c)(36) A spouse or unmarried dependent child of a beneficiary of an employment-based immigrant petition who is facing compelling circumstances; or(c)(37) An applicant for Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) long-term resident status. This category is not eligible for a fee waiver.For (c)(33) filers: There is no fee waiver. There are fee exemptions available only in limited circumstances. Please see DACA Filing Tips page concerning fee submissions for DACA-related Form I-765 and Form I-821D.For (c)(37) filers: There is no fee waiver for your Form I-765 base fee ($410) or biometric fee ($85).There is no biometric services fee for any other eligibility category.Through Sept. 30, 2023, there is no fee to file Form I-765 for Afghan nationals applying for work authorization on the basis of parole (eligibility category (c)(11)). This includes your application for an initial EAD and for a replacement EAD.There is no filing fee or biometric services fee for the initial Form I-765 filed by current or former service members who were paroled into the United States under the Immigrant Military Members and Veterans Initiative (IMMVI). Please write "IMMVI" at the top of Form I-765 to obtain the fee exemption and submit documentation that supports current or former military service such as the Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214), National Guard Report of Separation and Record of Service (NGB Form 22), or other official service or discharge document.You can pay the fee with a money order, personal check, cashier’s check, or pay by credit card using Form G-1450, Authorization for Credit Card Transactions. If you pay by check, you must make your check payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.When you send a payment, you agree to pay for a government service. Filing and biometric services fees are final and non-refundable, regardless of any action we take on your application, petition, or request, or if you withdraw your request. Use our Fee Calculator to help determine your fee.Pay each filing fee separately. We are transitioning to electronically processing immigration benefit requests, which requires us to use multiple systems to process your package. We may reject your entire package if you submit a single, combined payment for multiple forms.Checklist of Required Initial Evidence (for informational purposes only)View the checklist of required initial evidence.Form Filing TipsFiling Tips: Review our Tips for Filing Forms by Mail page for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.Don’t forget to sign your form. We will reject any unsigned form.Special InstructionsReplacing a Card That Has Incorrect InformationIf the card we issued to you contains incorrect information that is not due to our error, you must use the filing locations for Form I-765 associated with your eligibility category to submit your form and filing fee.If the card we issued to you contains incorrect information that is due to our error, you do not need to file a new Form I-765 and filing fee. Instead, you must submit a letter explaining the error and evidence to show what the correct information should be, along with the card containing the error, to the service center or National Benefits Center that approved your most recent Form I-765. Your approval notice will indicate which location approved your application. Please check the filing locations for Form I-765 under the heading “Replacement for Card Error” for a list of addresses.Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness (LRIF) Applicants: If you are filing Form I-765 as an adjustment of status applicant based on LRIF, you should write “(c)(9)” as your eligibility category in Part 2, Item Number 27 on your Form I-765. See our LRIF page for more information on adjustment of status based on LRIF.Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals requestors: To be considered for DACA, you must submit:Form I-821D, Consideration of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals;Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization;Form I-765 Worksheet; andThe correct fees.Note: If you are a current DACA recipient and only need to replace a valid employment authorization document (EAD) because yours was lost, stolen, or damaged, file Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, and select box 1.b. Submit the properly completed Form I-765, evidence that you are a current DACA recipient (such as your most recent DACA approval notice), and the filing fee to the filing address for the location where you live. Do not file Form I-821D, Consideration of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, with this Form I-765; if you submit Form I-821D when you are filing to replace a lost, stolen, or damaged EAD, we will deny your Form I-821D and we will not refund the $85 filing fee for Form I-821D.U Petitioners: If you are a principal U nonimmigrant petitioner, you are authorized to work based on your status. After we approve the underlying petition for U nonimmigrant status, we will issue you an Employment Authorization Document (EAD). This means you will not need to file Form I-765.If you are a derivative family member residing inside the United States, you are also authorized to work based on your status. After we approve the underlying petition for derivative U nonimmigrant status, we will not issue you an EAD. This means you will need to file Form I-765.We can only issue EADs for principals and derivatives after we approve the underlying U nonimmigrant status petition, regardless of when you file Form I-765.If you live in the U.S., you may receive employment authorization and deferred action if you have a pending bona fide petition and meet certain discretionary standards. We will issue a notice if you need to file a Form I-765 for employment authorization associated with a bona fide determination.If the statutory cap is reached in a fiscal year and we use the waiting list process described at 8 CFR 214.14(d)(2), petitioners for U nonimmigrant status and derivatives in the United States can apply for employment authorization using Form I-765 based on deferred action. We can only approve an application for employment authorization based on deferred action after DHS has deferred action in your case, regardless of when you file Form I-765.Asylum Applicants: Please refer to our Asylum page for more information, including information about the effect of applicant-caused delays on your Form I-765 adjudication.Employment Authorization Based on a Pending Form I-589 After Dismissal or Termination of Your Removal Proceedings by EOIRIf youThenHave an unexpired Employment Authorization Document (EAD) that was approved based on a pending Form I-589 before EOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings.Your current EAD will remain valid until its expiration date.Before your EAD expires, you may renew it by submitting:Evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of Form I-589 with USCIS after EOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as:The USCIS receipt notice we mailed to you;Your USCIS Asylum Interview Notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview);Your Form I-797C Notice (Application Support Center (ASC) appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your Form I-589); orOther evidence you filed your Form I-589 with USCIS.We recommend that you also submit:Proof you had a Form I-589 pending with EOIR at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as your Form I-589 receipt notice or other available documentary evidence of filing; andA copy of the EOIR Order of Dismissal or Termination.If USCIS has granted you employment authorization under the (c)(8) filing category, the appropriate fee must accompany any renewal applications filed under category (c)(8).Have a pending Form I-765 to renew your (c)(8)-based EAD, and you had a pending Form I-589 with EOIR before EOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings.USCIS may renew your EAD, if you submit:Evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of Form I-589 with USCIS after EOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as:The USCIS receipt notice we mailed to you;Your USCIS Asylum Interview Notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview);Your Form I-797C Notice (ASC appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your Form I-589); orOther evidence you filed your Form I-589 with USCIS.We recommend that you also submit:Proof you had a Form I-589 pending with EOIR at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as your Form I-589 Receipt Notice or other available documentary evidence of filing; andA copy of the EOIR Order of Dismissal or Termination.Have never been granted employment authorization under the (c)(8) filing category and:You have not filed Form I-765;You are eligible to file Form I-765 for an initial (c)(8)-based EAD;You had a pending Form I-589 with EOIR; andEOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings.You may file Form I-765 according to the instructions for requesting an EAD based on a pending asylum application.You should submit:Evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of Form I-589 with USCIS after EOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as:The USCIS receipt notice we mailed to you;Your USCIS Asylum Interview Notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview);Your Form I-797C Notice (ASC appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your Form I-589); orOther evidence you filed your Form I-589 with USCIS.We recommend that you also submit:Proof you had a Form I-589 pending with EOIR at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as your Form I-589 Receipt Notice or other available documentary evidence of filing; andA copy of the EOIR Order of Dismissal or Termination.Are not yet eligible for an initial (c)(8)-based EAD on the basis of the Form I-589 that was pending with EOIR before EOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings.You will generally continue to accumulate time to meet the 180-day Asylum EAD Clock (PDF, 375.08 KB) requirements after you file your Form I-589 with USCIS. When you file Form I-765, submit:Evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of Form I-589 with USCIS after EOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as:The USCIS receipt notice we mailed to you;Your USCIS Asylum Interview Notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview); orYour Form I-797C Notice (ASC appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your Form I-589).We recommend that you also submit:Proof that you had a Form I-589 pending with EOIR at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as your Form I-589 Receipt Notice or other available documentary evidence of filing; and A copy of the EOIR Order of Dismissal or Termination.Submit your new paper Form I-589 with your current address using the chart in the “Where to File” section of the Form I-589 page.Already have a (c)(8)-based EAD you need to renew because it will expire soon, and EOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings.Before your EAD expires, you will need to renew it by submitting:Evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of Form I-589 with USCIS after EOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as:The USCIS receipt notice we mailed to you;Your USCIS Asylum Interview Notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview);Your Form I-797C Notice (ASC appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your Form I-589); orOther evidence you filed your Form I-589 with USCIS.We recommend that you also submit:Proof that you had a Form I-589 pending with EOIR at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as a copy of your Form I-589 stamped received by EOIR or other available documentary evidence of filing; and A copy of the EOIR Order of Dismissal or Termination.The appropriate fee must accompany any renewal applications filed under category (c)(8).Filed Form I-765 based on (c)(8) eligibility, but we denied your Form I-765 because EOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings.You may reapply for an EAD or apply to renew your EAD by submitting Form I-765 to USCIS. You should include:Evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of Form I-589 with USCIS after EOIR dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as:The USCIS receipt notice we mailed to you;Your USCIS Asylum Interview Notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview);Your Form I-797C Notice (ASC appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your Form I-589); orOther evidence you filed your Form I-589 with USCIS.We recommend that you also submit:Proof you had a Form I-589 pending with EOIR at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as your Form I-589 Receipt Notice or other available documentary evidence of filing; andA copy of the EOIR Order of Dismissal or Termination.If USCIS has granted you employment authorization under the (c)(8) category, the appropriate filing fee must accompany your renewal application. If you are reapplying for employment authorization under the (c)(8) category, and this is not your initial employment authorization, the appropriate filing fee must accompany your application.For general employment authorization requirements based on a pending asylum application, see the “Permission to Work in the United States” section on the Asylum page.E-Notification: To receive a text message or email when we accept your Form I-765, complete Form G-1145, E-Notification of Application/Petition Acceptance, and attach it to the front of the first application in the package.Related LinksCard Delivery TrackingApply for your Social Security Number While Applying for Your Work Permit (PDF, 400.77 KB)Filing Form I-765 with Other FormsEmployment Authorization in Compelling CircumstancesAutomatic Employment Authorization Document (EAD) ExtensionLockbox Filing TipsDirect Filing Addresses for Form I-765, Application for Employment AuthorizationForm I-765V, Application for Employment Authorization for Abused Nonimmigrant SpouseImportant Information about Working Legally in the United States (PDF, 92.88 KB)DACAConsideration of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Fee Exemption GuidanceAsylumThe 180-Day Asylum EAD Clock Notice (PDF, 375.08 KB)Rosario Class ActionOptional ChecklistsOptional Checklist for Form I-765 (c)(3)(B) FilingsOptional Checklist for Form I-765 (c)(3)(C) FilingsOptional Checklist for Form I-765 (c)(8) FilingsOptional Checklist for Form I-765 (c)(9) Filings




Last Reviewed/Updated:
03/08/2024











Automatic Employment Authorization Document (EAD) Extension





      English
    

 
لعربية


中文





View additional languages


 
Creole


Français


Português




ALERT: In May 2022, USCIS announced a temporary final rule that increased the automatic extension period for employment authorization and EADs available to certain EAD renewal applicants to up to 540 days. As announced in 2022, beginning Oct. 27, 2023, automatic extensions of employment authorization and EAD validity will revert to the original up to 180-day period for those eligible applicants who timely file Form I-765 renewal applications. This change is not retroactive; all previous up to 540-day automatic extensions will remain in place. For individuals who received an increased automatic extension under this rule, the automatic extension generally will end when they receive a final decision on their renewal application or the end of the up to 540-day period, whichever comes earlier. Certain renewal applicants who have filed Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, qualify for an automatic extension of their expiring employment authorization and/or EADs while their application is pending. You qualify for this extension if you:Properly filed Form I-765 for a renewal of your employment authorization and/or EAD before your current EAD expired, andAre otherwise eligible for a renewal, which means that:Your renewal application is under a category that is eligible for an automatic extension (see the list of categories below); andThe Category on your current EAD matches the “Class Requested” listed on your Form I-797C Notice of Action, Receipt Notice. (Note: If you are a Temporary Protected Status (TPS) beneficiary or pending applicant, your EAD and this Notice must contain either the A12 or C19 category, but the categories do not need to match each other. In addition, for H-4, E, and L-2 dependent spouses, an unexpired Form I-94 indicating H-4, E, or L-2 nonimmigrant status (including E-1S, E-2S, E-3S, and L-2S class of admission codes) must accompany Form I-797C when presenting proof of employment authorization to an employer for Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification, purposes).Proof of an Automatic ExtensionThe automatic extension period is provided to certain renewal applicants to help prevent gaps in employment authorization and documentation.To present acceptable proof of the automatic extension of employment authorization and/or EAD validity, you can show your Form I-797C receipt notice that refers to the 180-day extension, along with your qualifying EAD (and also your unexpired Form I-94, if you are an H-4, E, or L-2 dependent spouse, including E-1S, E-2S, E-3S and L-2S class of admission codes). This document combination is also sufficient proof of an up to 540-day automatic extension under the May 2022 temporary final rule, counting from the expiration date on your current EAD.  If you filed a Form I-765 renewal application on or after May 4, 2022, and before Oct. 27, 2023, you may have received a Form I-797C Notice of Action receipt notice that has information regarding the up to 540-day automatic extension. If you were eligible for the automatic extension, this receipt notice, together with your expired EAD (and your unexpired Form I-94, if you are an H-4, E, or L-2 dependent spouse, including E-1S, E-2S, E-3S and L-2S class of admission codes) will serve as acceptable proof of employment authorization and/or EAD validity during the up to 540-day automatic extension period.If you were eligible for the temporary increase of the automatic extension, but you filed before May 4, 2022, you can determine whether there is any automatic extension time remaining by counting  540 days from the expiration date stated on the front of the EAD. (If you are an H-4, E, or L-2 dependent spouse, including E-1S, E-2S, E-3S and L-2S class of admission codes, count up to either 540 days or the expiration date on Form I-94, whichever is earlier.) Employers should complete Form I-9 using the same guidance applicable to those who present a Form I-797C Notice of Action receipt notice indicating that the Form I-765 renewal application was filed before May 4, 2022, and that states the normal 180-day automatic extension period.An individual’s automatic extension period may terminate prior to the maximum period either automatically when USCIS issues a denial of the applicant’s Form I-765 renewal application or upon notice.For guidance on completing Form I-9 covering automatic extensions and proof of employment authorization for hiring, rehiring, and reverification, as well as all other Form I-9-related guidance, visit I-9 Central.Categories Eligible for Automatic ExtensionsThe following employment eligible categories are eligible for an automatic extension:The eligibility category you listed on your Form I-765 renewal applicationDescription(a)(3)Refugee(a)(5)Asylee(a)(7)N-8 or N-9(a)(8)Citizen of Micronesia, Marshall Islands, or Palau(a)(10)Withholding of Deportation or Removal Granted(a)(12)Temporary Protected Status (TPS) Granted(a)(17)Spouse of principal E nonimmigrant with an unexpired I-94 showing E (including E-1S, E-2S and E-3S) nonimmigrant status*(a)(18)Spouse of principal L-1 Nonimmigrant with an unexpired I-94 showing L-2 (including L-2S) nonimmigrant status*(c)(8)Asylum Application Pending(c)(9)Pending Adjustment of Status under Section 245 of the Act(c)(10)Suspension of Deportation Applicants (filed before April 1, 1997)Cancellation of Removal ApplicantsSpecial Rule Cancellation of Removal Applicants Under NACARA(c)(16)Creation of Record (Adjustment Based on Continuous Residence Since January 1, 1972)(c)(19)Pending initial application for TPS where USCIS determines applicant is prima facie eligible for TPS and can receive an EAD as a “temporary treatment benefit”.(c)(20)Section 210 Legalization (pending I-700)(c)(22)Section 245A Legalization (pending I-687)(c)(24)LIFE Legalization(c)(26)Spouses of certain H-1B principal nonimmigrants with an unexpired I-94 showing H-4 nonimmigrant status(c)(31)VAWA Self-Petitioners* For more information on the options available to demonstrate employment authorization for E spouses and L spouses, see E-1 Treaty Traders page (Family of E-1 Treaty Traders and Employees section), E-2 Treaty Investors page (Family of E-2 Treaty Investors and Employees section), E-3 Certain Specialty Occupation Professions from Australia page (Family of E-3 Nonimmigrant Workers section), L-1A Intracompany Transferee Executive or Manager page (Family of L-1 Workers section), or L-1B Intracompany Transferee Specialized Knowledge page (Family of L-1 Workers section). NOTE: Individuals with a TPS-based EAD may receive an automatic extension of their EAD:Through publication of a Federal Register notice extending the TPS designation of the individual’s country, if the Federal Register notice also authorizes an automatic extension of covered individuals’ existing EADs; orThrough this automatic extension.



Last Reviewed/Updated:
10/27/2023











Additional Information on Filing a Fee Waiver





      English
    

 
دری


Kreyòl Ayisyen





View additional languages


 
پښتو


Русский


Українська




Alert: On Sept. 29, 2020, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in Immigration Legal Resource Center et al., v. Wolf, et al., 20-cv-05883-JWS, preliminarily enjoined DHS from implementing or enforcing any part of the USCIS Fee Schedule and Changes to Certain Other Immigration Benefit Request Requirements rule  (PDF).While the rule is preliminarily enjoined, we will continue to:Accept USCIS forms with the current editions and current fees; andUse the regulations and guidance currently in place to adjudicate applications and petitions. This includes accepting and adjudicating fee waiver requests as provided under Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapters 10.9 (PDF, 2.55 MB) and 10.10 (PDF, 2.55 MB).For more information, please refer to the Federal Register Notice, dated Jan. 29, 2021.USCIS is funded largely by application and petition fees. Recognizing that some applicants cannot pay the filing fees, USCIS established a fee waiver process for certain forms and benefit types. We will approve a fee waiver only if you clearly demonstrate that you are unable to pay the filing fees. USCIS carefully considers the merits of each fee waiver request before making a decision.If you are requesting a fee waiver, you cannot submit any petition or application online. You will need to file paper versions of the fee waiver request and the form for which you are requesting a fee waiver.EligibilityYou can request a fee waiver if:The form you are filing is eligible for a fee waiver (See the list available on the Form I-912, Request for Fee Waiver web page or the regulations at 8 CFR 103.7(c)(3));ANDYou provide documentation showing that you qualify based upon one of the following criteria:You, your spouse, or the head of household living with you, are currently receiving a means-tested benefit.Your household income is at or below 150 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines at the time you file. Check the current Federal Poverty Guidelines for this year at Form I-912P, HHS Poverty Guidelines for Fee Waiver Requests.You are currently experiencing financial hardship that prevents you from paying the filing fee, including unexpected medical bills or emergencies.See the USCIS Fee Waiver Policy (PDF, 77.55 KB).Requesting a Fee WaiverComplete the most current version of Form I-912, Request for Fee Waiver. Instead of the form, we will also accept a letter with all the necessary information that states your request for a fee waiver, is signed by everyone requesting the fee waiver, and includes all the necessary supporting evidence.It is important that you provide all of the information requested about each basis of eligibility that you have selected on Form I-912. If you do not provide enough information and documents to support your request, there will be a considerable delay in processing your request. Please read the form instructions carefully to avoid common mistakes.You can check more than one box in Part 1, Basis for Your Request, on Form I-912. Select at least one basis for which you may qualify and complete the relevant sections as instructed in the form and provide supporting documentation for any basis you select. You only need to qualify and provide documentation for one basis for USCIS to grant your fee waiver. If you choose, you may select more than one basis; you must provide supporting documentation for each basis you want considered. You are not required to select more than one basis or complete all sections of the form.You must include a full English translation for all documents that have information in a foreign language. The translator must sign a certification that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. USCIS does not regulate who may translate and does not require professional translation of documents.Sign your fee waiver request. Each person requesting a fee waiver must sign the fee waiver request. If you are under 14 years of age, your parent or legal guardian may sign the request for you. A legal guardian may also sign for a person with a physical disability or mental impairment.Send your fee waiver request with the petition or application for which you are requesting the fee be waived. Do not send a fee waiver request by itself.How to show that you receive a means-tested benefitA means-tested benefit is a public benefit where the agency granting the benefit considers your income and resources.Means-tested benefits may be federally, state, or locally funded. In general, if you receive a benefit that was granted based on your income, we consider it a means-tested benefit.The table below lists some examples of what USCIS considers a means-tested benefit for eligibility of fee waivers.Identifying Federal Means-Tested ProgramsMeans-tested benefit programsNOT means-tested benefit programsExamples include:MedicaidSupplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, formerly called Food Stamps)Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF)Supplemental Security Income (SSI)Examples include:MedicareUnemployment benefitsSocial Security benefitsSocial Security Disability Insurance (SSDI)Retirement, Survivors and Disability Insurance (RSDI)Student financial aid/loans/grantsIf you are receiving a means-tested benefit that is not well known outside of your area, please provide as much information as you can about the benefit. This may include a brochure, contact information, or the website address of the agency granting the benefit.You must provide evidence that you are currently receiving a means-tested benefit. Computer printouts are acceptable as long as they include the required information. This evidence should be in the form of a letter, notice, or other official document that contains the required information, including:Your name,The name of the agency granting you the public benefit,The type of benefit, andAn indication that you are currently receiving the benefit (for example, the date granted, expiration date, and/or date of renewal, if available).A benefit card by itself is not acceptable evidence of a means-tested benefit, unless it contains all four of the requirements above.If you are filing on behalf of a child, provide the information and documentation of the means-tested benefit that the child receives.Who may use your means-tested benefits to qualifyYour spouse may use your means-tested benefit to qualify for a fee waiver as long as you are residing with your spouse and are not legally separated.If you have a child under 21 years of age, that child may use your means-tested benefit to qualify for a fee waiver. The person filing for the child must provide evidence of the parent-child relationship, such as a photocopy of a birth certificate.Who may use your child’s means-tested benefit to qualifyUSCIS has never allowed a parent to use a child’s means-tested benefit to qualify for a fee waiver. However, as with all fee waiver adjudications, USCIS reviews all the information and documentation received to determine if an applicant qualifies under any basis of eligibility. Therefore, while we will consider your child’s means-tested benefit when determining your eligibility, we will not approve your application under Option 1 of Part 1. Basis for Request of Form I-912 based only on your child’s means-tested benefit.A child’s means-tested benefit cannot be used by anyone else as the basis for eligibility under Part 5. Means-Tested Benefits of Form I-912. However, if the child’s means-tested benefit document or agency approval letter states the total household income in which the child is a member, other household members may use the document to qualify for a fee waiver under “Part 5. Income at or Below 150 Percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines” or “Part 6. Financial Hardship.”If you have children (under the age of 21) who receive means-tested benefits and want to file togetherIf multiple children (siblings) are filing at the same time, each child must be receiving an individual means-tested benefit or be in the household of the parent or guardian who is receiving a means-tested benefit.If you have an adult disabled child (21 years of age or older)Although USCIS does not accept a parent’s means-tested benefit for adult children, an adult child or legal ward who is physically or developmentally disabled or mentally impaired (and who is unmarried and cannot adequately care for themselves, or establish, maintain, or re-establish their own household) may qualify based on his or her own means-tested benefit.The adult child may have an assigned representative for the means-tested benefit. In addition, the parent or legal guardian may provide the information about the custody and the disability in the financial hardship section.If you have a child (21 years of age or older) who is going to college and is dependent on your householdA college student (21 years of age or older) may not use a parent’s means-tested benefit. However, a college student can independently qualify for a fee waiver based on either financial hardship or income below 150% of the Federal Poverty Guidelines.Any information about the parent’s means-tested benefit can be included under the financial hardship or income below 150% of the Federal Poverty Guidelines parts of Form I-912.How to show you are currently receiving a means-tested benefitYou must provide evidence that you are currently receiving a means-tested benefit. Computer printouts are acceptable as long as they include the required information. This evidence should be in the form of a letter, notice, or other official document that contains the required information including:Your name (or the name of the person receiving the benefit),The name of the agency granting the public benefit,The type of benefit, andAn indication that you are currently receiving the benefit (for example, the date granted, expiration date, and/or date of renewal, if available.)If your document does not show an expiration date for the means-tested benefit you currently receiveIf the document does not have an expiration date, USCIS will review the date on the letter or issuance date to confirm it is within 12 months of the date you filed your Form I-912.The documentation provided should not be dated more than 12 months from the date you file Form I-912. If the documentation is more than 12 months old and you are still receiving the benefit, provide additional evidence that shows you are currently receiving the benefit.Benefit cards are not accepted as evidenceBenefit cards by themselves are not acceptable evidence of a means-tested benefit, unless they contain your name, the name of the agency granting you the public benefit, the type of benefit, and an indication that you currently receive the benefit (for example, the date you were granted the benefit and the date it expires or was renewed). States usually do not require applicants to return cards, without any value, after the expiration of benefits.How to show that your household income is at or below 150 percent of the Federal Poverty GuidelinesYou may qualify for a fee waiver if your household income is at or below 150 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines at the time you file. Check the current poverty levels for this year at Form I-912P, HHS Poverty Guidelines for Fee Waiver Requests.You must list the head of household’s income on your fee waiver request. For the fee waiver request, the head of household includes, but is not limited to, the head of household as determined by the IRS for filing an IRS Form 1040 or the person that earns the majority of the income for your household. You can find more information about head of household when filing the IRS Form 1040 at http://www.irs.gov/publications/p501.If you are requesting a fee waiver based on household income that is at or below 150 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines and your spouse lives overseas and provides support to your household, include your spouse’s contributions to your household in the total additional income or financial support section. If your spouse living overseas is unemployed and is supported by you, state that on the form. If your spouse lives overseas and provides no support to your household, please include a statement explaining the situation.We will consider homelessness when reviewing a fee waiver request. If you receive services from a homeless shelter, please include a currently dated letter from the shelter. The letter should be on the shelter’s letterhead, include a statement that you receive services from the shelter, and be signed by a shelter employee attesting to your situation. If you are homeless but do not reside in a shelter, please include an affidavit from a member of good standing in your community who knows you and can support your claim that you are homeless and unable to pay the fee(s).How to show that you have a financial hardshipInclude a detailed description of why you have financial hardship on the form and provide evidence.If you cannot provide evidence of financial hardship, include in your description an explanation of why you cannot provide evidence. It is always advisable to include an affidavit from a member of good standing in your community who knows you and can provide more insight into your situation.If you lost all forms of evidence in a natural disaster, fire, robbery, or through other means, include an explanation in your description. Please provide a copy of a police report, insurance claim or other report, if available, to support your claim.Determining who counts toward your household size and incomeYou count someone as part of your household size if that person is:You;The head of your household (if not you). If the child (under 21 years of age) is applying individually, provide the information of the primary custodial parent;Your spouse living with you (if you are separated or your spouse is not living with you, do not include your spouse); orAny of the following family members who live with you:Your children or legal wards, who are unmarried and under 21 years of age;Your children or legal wards, who are unmarried and are at least 21 years of age but under 24 years of age, are full-time students, and who live with you when not at school;Your children or legal wards, who are unmarried and for whom you are the legal guardian because they are physically or developmentally disabled or mentally impaired to the extent that they cannot adequately care for themselves and cannot establish, maintain, or re-establish their own household;Your parents; andAny other dependents listed on your federal tax return, or on your spouse’s or head of household’s federal tax returns.You must include the annual income of your household members as part of your household income.My relative or roommate lives with me, does their income count toward my household income?If someone lives with you but does not meet the definition of a household member as described above, do not count that person’s income as part of your household income. You should count the specific amount of any financial contribution that you receive from them only if that money was used to support your household. You would list that amount under the additional income or financial support section.Example 1: If your uncle lives in your house (which you own) and paid $1,000 towards your mortgage, that $1,000 would be included under additional income or financial support because it was financial support provided to your household.Example 2: You share an apartment with a roommate who is not a household member. You pay your own expenses, and your roommate pays his expenses. Your roommate’s income is not part of your household income because the roommate is not financially supporting you. Therefore, you do not include the roommate’s income as part of your household income.I receive child support, but not the full amount as listed in the court order. Do I include the full amount of the child support as additional income or financial support or only what I actually receive?Annotate the actual amount of child support received. If there is a difference between what is stated in a court order or documentation, provide an explanation. Examples of documents may include bank statements, copies of checks, court documents, or other documentation indicating the actual income or financial assistance you are receiving.How marital separation affects eligibilityIf you are requesting a fee waiver based on income at or below 150 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines and are not including your spouse’s income because of a marital separation, please provide a signed statement or documentation to establish that your spouse does not live with you and provides no income assistance. Acceptable documents may include a copy of the court order that formalized your legal separation, a formal notarized property settlement agreement, financial support agreement, or separate mortgage, lease, or utility bills that show you and your spouse live apart.Even if you are separated from your spouse, your household income includes any monthly support payments that you receive from your spouse.How an Affidavit of Support affects eligibilityIf someone filed a Form I-134, Declaration of Financial Support, or Form I-864, Affidavit of Support under Section 213A of the Act, for you, that person may still be responsible for supporting you. However, we will consider that person’s income or assets in deciding whether you are eligible for a fee waiver only if that person is currently a member of your household.How requesting a fee waiver affects your current immigration statusRelying primarily on public cash assistance for income maintenance can affect your eligibility for some immigration benefits, depending on the totality of the circumstances. You may be inadmissible to the United States (and therefore ineligible for certain immigration benefits like a Green Card) because you are more likely than not to become a public charge. You may also be deportable for already having become a public charge within 5 years of entering the United States for reasons that arose before you entered the country.You can find detailed guidance on these issues published in the May 26, 1999, edition of the Federal Register (64 Fed. Reg. 28689) and by searching for “Public Charge” at www.uscis.gov.When deciding your fee waiver request, we will not consider the possibility that you might be inadmissible or deportable as a public charge. We decide your fee waiver request separately from making a decision about your eligibility for the immigration benefit. However, being inadmissible as a public charge may make you ineligible for the benefit you seek.We will deny your application or petition if we determine that it involves false documentation, misrepresentation of facts, or other fraud, including fraud on this fee waiver request.Common reasons why we deny fee waiver requestsThe form for which you are making the request is not eligible for a fee waiver.You did not sign your Form I-912 or the written request.All applicants (those 14 years of age or older) filing the request did not sign Form I-912 or the written request (or, if under 14 years of age, did not have a parent or legal guardian sign for them).You did not provide evidence that:You are currently receiving a means-tested benefit;Your household income is at or below 150 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines; orYou are currently experiencing a financial hardship.You submitted evidence in support of your fee waiver request that is not in English, and you did not provide a certified English translation.If USCIS denied your fee waiver and you are not sure why, please read the denial notice (Form I-797, Notice of Action). If, after checking the denial notice, you still do not understand why we denied your fee waiver request, you may email us at lockboxsupport@uscis.dhs.gov.Guidance on Requesting a Fee Waiver for your Form I-765, Application for Employment AuthorizationSome applicants who file Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, are not required to pay a fee. For example, there is no fee to apply for initial employment authorization for noncitizens with a pending Form I-589, Application for Asylum. Please refer to the USCIS Fee Schedule www.uscis.gov/g-1055 to determine if a fee is required to be filed with your Form I-765.If you are required to pay a filing fee for Form I-765, you may be eligible for a fee waiver. If you would like to request a fee waiver, you must complete and file Form I-912, Request for Fee Waiver, with your Form I-765.  If you are requesting a fee waiver, you cannot submit any petition or application online. Instead, you will need to file paper versions of the fee waiver request together with the Form I-765.Form I-912 is available on the USCIS website at www.uscis.gov/i-912Form I-765 is available on the USCIS website at www.uscis.gov/i-765       Note: The address you send your Form I-765 to depends on your reason for applying and the eligibility category you entered in Question 27 of your Form I-765. Please check the USCIS website at www.uscis.gov/i-765-addresses for the filing locations.     What do I need to support my fee waiver request?When you file your fee waiver request, USCIS will review all the evidence that you provide about your situation. USCIS will consider granting your fee waiver request if, at the time of submission, you meet at least one of these requirements, and are able to provide support for at least one of these requirements:You, your spouse, or the head of household living with you are receiving a means-tested public benefit;Your household income is at or below 150 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines at the time you file the request for fee waiver; orYou are currently experiencing financial hardship that prevents you from paying the filing fee.What is a Means-tested Public Benefit?A means-tested public benefit for purposes of a fee waiver is a public benefit where the agency granting the benefit considers your income and resources in determining eligibility. Means-tested public benefits may be federally, state, or locally funded. In general, if you receive a benefit that was granted based on your income, we consider it a means-tested public benefit. Examples of means-tested public benefits include:Medicaid;Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, formerly called Food Stamps);Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF); andSupplemental Security Income (SSI), or other state or local programs.You need to provide USCIS with evidence that you are receiving these public benefits. Examples of evidence include a letter, notice, or other official document from the benefit-granting organization that contains the required information, including:the name of the person receiving the benefit; the name of the agency granting the means-tested benefit;the type of benefit; andthat you are currently receiving the benefit (for example, the date granted, expiration date, and/or date of renewal, if available.).A benefit card by itself is not considered acceptable evidence of a means-tested benefit unless it contains the relevant, individual information provided above.Is My Household Income Below 150% of the Federal Poverty Guidelines?You can find detailed information on the Federal Poverty Guidelines at www.uscis.gov/forms/filing-fees/additional-information-on-filing-a-fee-waiver. USCIS will ask you to list your income and the income of everyone in your household. You must provide proof of your household income, such as tax returns or a month’s worth of pay stubs for all household members earning an income.What may demonstrate Financial Hardship?If you are unable to pay the application fee due to financial hardship, such as unemployment, medical expenses of family members, natural disasters, eviction, homelessness, or other circumstances, you must provide USCIS a detailed description of your financial situation and any evidence you have that demonstrates you cannot afford to pay the fee. Examples of accepted evidence to support your detailed description of your financial hardship include:bank statements,pay stubs or proof of unemploymentutility bills,rental agreements,medical bills,proof of unstable housing or homelessness  To support this request you can also include an affidavit from someone in your community who can describe your current financial situation, such as a representative from a religious institution, non-profit organization, a local or state agency, community-based organization, or homeless shelter provider. This affidavit should be signed and dated.If you lost evidence due to a crime, fire, natural disaster, or other unexpected situation, you should provide police reports, insurance claims, or any other evidence that is available. More InformationFor more information on filing a fee waiver request, please see the Form I-912 page and the form instructions at www.uscis.gov/i-912 and our page on requesting a fee waiver at www.uscis.gov/forms/filing-fees/additional-information-on-filing-a-fee-waiver.For more information about who is required to apply for employment authorization and about the fee waiver, see the Form I-765 instructions at www.uscis.gov/i-765.Related LinksFormsForm I-912, Request for Fee WaiverForm I-912P, HHS Poverty Guidelines for Fee Waiver RequestsHandoutsGuidance on Requesting a Fee Waiver for your Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization (PDF, 147.15 KB)Guidance on Requesting a Fee Waiver for your Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization (Spanish) (PDF, 150.3 KB)Guidance on Requesting a Fee Waiver for your Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization (Haitian Creole) (PDF, 158.12 KB)Guidance on Requesting a Fee Waiver for your Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization (Russian) (PDF, 208.18 KB)Guidance on Requesting a Fee Waiver for your Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization (Ukrainian) (PDF, 164.25 KB)Guidance on Requesting a Fee Waiver for your Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization (WOLOF) (PDF, 154.53 KB)



Last Reviewed/Updated:
10/31/2023






